# Basic JavaScript-rendered Hello World

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

### MDN - Introduction to the DOM

- The Document Object Model (DOM) is the data representation of the objects that
  comprise the structure and content of a document on the web.
- It is a programming interface for web documents, representing the page so that
  programs can change the document structure, style and content.
- The document is represented as nodes and objects.
- The DOM comprises multiple APIs that work together, with the core DOM defining
  the entities that describe a document and the objects in it, and other APIs,
  such as the SVG API adding new features and capabilities.
- DOM APIs are used directly in JS from within a script (a program run by a
  browser).
- The vast majority of code that uses the DOM revolves around manipulating HTML
  documents and as such it is common to refer to the nodes in the DOM as
  **elements**, however different nodes actually implement a variety of
  interfaces, listed below:

| Data type    | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Document     | When a member returns an object of type document, this object is the rood document object itself.                                  |
| Node         | Every object located within a document is some kind of node.                                                                       |
| Element      | The element type is based on the node type. It refers to an element or a node of type element returned by a member of the DOM API. |
| NodeList     | A nodeList is an array of elements, like the kind returned by the method document.querySelectorAll().                              |
| Attr         | Wen an attribute is returned by a member is is an object reference that expose a special interface for attributes.                 |
| NamedNodeMap | A namedNodeMap is like an array, but the items are accessed by name or index                                                       |

- DOM objects can borrow from several different interfaces. The table object,
  for example, implements the specialized HTMLTableElement interface, which
  contains table specific methods like the createCaption and insertRow methods,
  and the base HTMLElement interface which contains properties like className.
- The **document** and **window** objects are the objects whose interfaces are
  most commonly used in DOM programming. The window object represents something
  like the browser, while the document object is the root of the document
  itself.
- **Element** inherits from the generic **node** interface and together these
  two interfaces provide many of the methods and properties you use on
  individual elements.

## Background

It doesn't take long to learn how to make "Hello World" appear on the page with
HTML: z

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </body>
</html>
```

The browser takes this HTML code and generates
[the DOM (the Document Object Model)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
out of it. The browser then exposes the DOM to JavaScript so you can interact
with it to add a layer of interactivity to your web-page.

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
    <script type="module">
      // your JavaScript here
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Years ago, people were generating HTML on the server and then adding JavaScript
on top of that generated HTML for interactivity. However, as requirements for
that interactivity became more challenging, this approach produced applications
that were difficult to maintain and had performance issues.

So modern JavaScript frameworks were created to address some of the challenges
by programmatically creating the DOM rather than defining it in hand-written
HTML.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.html)

It's important to have a basic understanding of how to generate and interact
with DOM nodes using JavaScript because it will help you understand how React
works under the hood a little better. So in this exercise we're actually not
going to use React at all. Instead we're going to use JavaScript to create a
`div` DOM node with the text "Hello World" and insert that DOM node into the
document.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 generate the root node

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-1.html)

Rather than having the `root` node in the HTML, see if you can create that one
using JavaScript as well.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=01%3A%20Basic%20JavaScript-rendered%20Hello%20World&em=keaghan.kennedy%40gmail.com).
